---
layout: post
title: "Top Albums of 2012"
date: 2012-12-22 22:02
comments: true
categories: music
---

Basically, I love metal. The last few years have had some insane releases, so I guess I should start documenting them.

<iframe width="500" height="250" src="https://rd.io/i/QFrWPlbYew" frameborder="0"></iframe>
## 1. meshuggah - koloss
most bands try to "grow" and try new things album to album. meshuggah instead relentlessly refines their already incredible and oft-imitated but never replicated sound. koloss is the sound of masters doing what they do best. and after seeing them live supporting this album, there's no way it can't be the top of the year's list. 

- - -

<iframe width="500" height="250" src="https://rd.io/i/QFrWPlWVcQ" frameborder="0"></iframe>
## 2. black breath - sentenced to life
one of my favorite metal albums of all time is entombed's wolverine blues. when it first came out in 1994, it was so different than what everyone expected of "metal," and it had some if the most badass riffs I'd ever heard. My band immediately tried to write riffs like theirs, with varying degrees of success. Almost 20 years later, Black Breath has basically recreated Wolverine Blues, and it's everything I ever hoped it would be.
 
- - -

<iframe width="500" height="250" src="https://rd.io/i/QFrWPlvKXQ" frameborder="0"></iframe>
## 3. enabler - all hail the void
growing up in the hardcore scene, there's always been that crusty sound that just sounds so right, but is so rare to come across. enabler pulls it off. every track on this album is super pissed and perfectly executed. 

- - -

<iframe width="500" height="250" src="https://rd.io/i/QFrWPkwI9Q" frameborder="0"></iframe>
## 4. tori amos - night of hunters
I've always had a weakness for dissonant female vocalists, and not many people pull off the brooding sound like tori amos. the secret to her awesomeness has always been the dark accompanying music, and this album delivers the goods. just huge, epic soundscapes. what makes this album stand out even more, though, are the duets with her 11 year old daughter. haunting.

- - -

<iframe width="500" height="250" src="https://rd.io/i/QFrWPlj2rA" frameborder="0"></iframe>
## 5. devin townsend project - epicloud
Devin Townsend is basically a genius.

- - -

### Honorable Mentions

<iframe width="500" height="250" src="https://rd.io/i/QFrWPlQ75Q" frameborder="0"></iframe>
#### 7 horns 7 eyes - throes of absolution
I didn't even know who these guys were until I saw they had played with my wife's friend's band recently. I checked them out and was pretty much blown away. When the vocals come in on the first song, you’ll know what I mean.

<iframe width="500" height="250" src="https://rd.io/i/QFrWPlfgeQ" frameborder="0"></iframe>
#### chimp spanner - all roads lead here
One of the best examples of bedroom metal around.
